README.md, before:

# zenoh_autoware_fms

The project is the FMS (fleet management system) prototype of Autoware based on Zenoh.

![FMS Architecture](resource/Autoware_FMS_Zenoh_Architecture.svg)

## Usage

### Basic test

* Install prerequisite

```shell
./prerequisite.sh
```

* Run Web Server & API Server

```shell
# Before the following steps, please source ROS 2 environment
source env.sh
./run_server.sh
```

* You can use environment [here](https://github.com/evshary/zenoh_demo_docker_env/tree/main/autoware_multiple_fms) to test FMS
  * Remember to change the IP in `docker-compose.yml` to FMS IP.

### Integration with Carla

Here is [the tutorial](https://autoware-carla-launch.readthedocs.io/en/latest/scenarios/fms.html) how to run FMS with Carla.

## Development

* API Server: [http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs](http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs)
* Zenoh Listen Port: TCP/7887

## Project

Please check our roadmap in [GitHub Project](https://github.com/users/evshary/projects/2)

## For Developers

You can use pre-commit and Ruff to have correct Python format

```shell
python3 -m pip install pre-commit ruff
pre-commit install --install-hooks
```
## Autoware API

### Topic

| Category | Name                                 | Type                                                                 | Description                                      |
|:-------- |:------------------------------------- |:-------------------------------------------------------------------- |:------------------------------------------------ |
| Pose     | /api/vehicle/kinematics               | autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/VehicleKinematics                         | Get vehicle kinematics                           |
| Pose     | /planning/mission_planning/echo_back_goal_pose| geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped                                      | Echo back the goal position and orientation                         |
| Pose     | /planning/mission_planning/goal       | geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped                                        | Set the goal position and orientation            |
| Pose     | /control/gate_mode_cmd                | tier4_control_msgs/msg/GateMode                                      | Set the gate mode to AUTO                        |
| Status   | /api/external/get/cpu_usage           | tier4_autoware_msgs/tier4_external_api_msgs/msg/CpuUsage             | Get the current CPU usage statistics             |
| Status   | /api/external/get/vehicle/status      | tier4_autoware_msgs/tier4_external_api_msgs/msg/VehicleStatusStamped | Get gear shift and turn signal of vehicle        |
| Teleop   | /api/external/get/vehicle/status      | tier4_autoware_msgs/tier4_external_api_msgs/msg/VehicleStatusStamped | Get gear shift and turn signal of vehicle        |
| Teleop   | /control/gate_mode_cmd                | tier4_control_msgs/msg/GateMode                                      | Set the gate mode to External                    |
| Teleop   | /api/external/set/command/remote/shift | tier4_autoware_msgs/tier4_external_api_msgs/msg/GearShiftStamped     | Set gear shift from FMS                          |
| Teleop   | /external/selected/control_cmd        | autoware_auto_control_msgs/AckermannControlCommand                   | Set longitudinal speed and acceleration From FMS |

### Service

| Category | Name                                     | Type                                         | Description                             |
|:-------- |:---------------------------------------- |:-------------------------------------------- |:--------------------------------------- |
| Pose     | /api/operation_mode/change_to_autonomous | autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/srv/ChangeOperionMode | Change the operation mode to autonomous |
| Teleop   | /api/operation_mode/change_to_remote     | autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/srv/ChangeOperionMode | Change the operation mode to remote     |

Commit message:

Change get goal pose topic to ADAPI topic.

README.md, after:

# zenoh_autoware_fms

The project is the FMS (fleet management system) prototype of Autoware based on Zenoh.

![FMS Architecture](resource/Autoware_FMS_Zenoh_Architecture.svg)

## Usage

### Basic test

* Install prerequisite

```shell
./prerequisite.sh
```

* Run Web Server & API Server

```shell
# Before the following steps, please source ROS 2 environment
source env.sh
./run_server.sh
```

* You can use environment [here](https://github.com/evshary/zenoh_demo_docker_env/tree/main/autoware_multiple_fms) to test FMS
  * Remember to change the IP in `docker-compose.yml` to FMS IP.

### Integration with Carla

Here is [the tutorial](https://autoware-carla-launch.readthedocs.io/en/latest/scenarios/fms.html) how to run FMS with Carla.

## Development

* API Server: [http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs](http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs)
* Zenoh Listen Port: TCP/7887

## Project

Please check our roadmap in [GitHub Project](https://github.com/users/evshary/projects/2)

## For Developers

You can use pre-commit and Ruff to have correct Python format

```shell
python3 -m pip install pre-commit ruff
pre-commit install --install-hooks
```
## Autoware API

### Topic

| Category | Name                                 | Type                                                                 | Description                                      |
|:-------- |:------------------------------------- |:-------------------------------------------------------------------- |:------------------------------------------------ |
| Pose     | /api/vehicle/kinematics               | autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/VehicleKinematics                         | Get vehicle kinematics                           |
| Pose     | /api/routing/route | autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/Route                                      | Get the route and the goal position                        |
| Pose     | /planning/mission_planning/goal       | geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped                                        | Set the goal position and orientation            |
| Pose     | /control/gate_mode_cmd                | tier4_control_msgs/msg/GateMode                                      | Set the gate mode to AUTO                        |
| Status   | /api/external/get/cpu_usage           | tier4_autoware_msgs/tier4_external_api_msgs/msg/CpuUsage             | Get the current CPU usage statistics             |
| Status   | /api/external/get/vehicle/status      | tier4_autoware_msgs/tier4_external_api_msgs/msg/VehicleStatusStamped | Get gear shift and turn signal of vehicle        |
| Teleop   | /api/external/get/vehicle/status      | tier4_autoware_msgs/tier4_external_api_msgs/msg/VehicleStatusStamped | Get gear shift and turn signal of vehicle        |
| Teleop   | /control/gate_mode_cmd                | tier4_control_msgs/msg/GateMode                                      | Set the gate mode to External                    |
| Teleop   | /api/external/set/command/remote/shift | tier4_autoware_msgs/tier4_external_api_msgs/msg/GearShiftStamped     | Set gear shift from FMS                          |
| Teleop   | /external/selected/control_cmd        | autoware_auto_control_msgs/AckermannControlCommand                   | Set longitudinal speed and acceleration From FMS |

### Service

| Category | Name                                     | Type                                         | Description                             |
|:-------- |:---------------------------------------- |:-------------------------------------------- |:--------------------------------------- |
| Pose     | /api/operation_mode/change_to_autonomous | autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/srv/ChangeOperionMode | Change the operation mode to autonomous |
| Teleop   | /api/operation_mode/change_to_remote     | autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/srv/ChangeOperionMode | Change the operation mode to remote     |
